
THE

A, B, C.

WITH THE

Church of England CATECHISM.

TO WHICH ARE ANNEXED,

PRAYERS used in the ACADEMY of the PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH,
in PHILADELPHIA.

ALSO,

A HYMN on the NATIVITY of our SAVIOUR; and another for EASTER-DAY.

PROV. xxii. 6. _Train up a Child in the Way he should go; and
when he is Old he will not depart from it_.




PHILADELPHIA:

Printed by YOUNG, STEWART, and M'CULLOCH,

in _Chesnut-Street_, No. 7, below _Third-Street_.

M, D C C, L X X X V.



The Roman Alphabets.

A a b c d e g h i j k 1 m n o p q r f s t u v w x y z &.

A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z AE OE.


_The Italic Alphabets_.

_A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z AE_.

_A a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r f s t u v w x y z &_.


& sh st ff ss fi si fl sl ffi ssi ssl ae oe.

, ; : . ? ! - ( ) [ ] * ‡ † § ¶


Ab eb ib ob ub

ac ec ic oc uc

ad cd id od ud

af ef if of uf

ag eg ig og ug

ak ek ik ok uk

al el il ol ul

an en in on un

ap ep ip op up

as es is os us

at et it ot ut


_The Blanks left in Page 6, were formerly filled up with the Words_
(King) _and_ (him); _but as that Form of Expression does not suit
our Republican Governments, the Teacher will be pleased to fill up
the Blanks with what Words he may deem Expedient_.



T H E

CHURCH OF ENGLAND CATECHISM.

Question. _What is your Name_?

_Answer_. N. or M.

Q. _Who gave you this Name_?

_A_. My God-Fathers and God-Mothers in my Baptism; wherein I was
made a Member of Christ, the Child of God, and an Inheritor of
the Kingdom of Heaven.

Q. _What did your God-Fathers and God-Mothers then for you_?

_A_. They did Promise and Vow three Things in my Name: _First_, That
I should renounce the Devil and all his Works, the Pomp and Vanity
of this wicked World, and all the sinful Lusts of the Flesh:
_Secondly_, That I should believe all the Articles of the Christian
Faith: And, _Thirdly_, That I should keep God's holy Will and
Commandments, and walk in the Same all the Days of my Life.

Q. _Dost thou not think, that thou art bound to Believe, and to Do,
as they have promised for thee_?

_A_. Yes, verily; and by God's help so I will. And I heartily thank
our Heavenly Father, that he hath called me to this State of
Salvation, through Jesus Christ our Saviour. And I pray unto God
to give me his Grace, that I may continue in the same unto my
Life's End.

Catechist. _Rehearse the Articles of thy Belief_.

_A_. I believe in God the Father Almighty,  Maker of Heaven and
Earth:

And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord; who was conceived by
the Holy Ghost; born of the Virgin _Mary_; suffered under Pontius
Pilate; was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into Hell,
the third Day he rose again from the Dead, he ascended into Heaven,
and sitteth at the Right Hand of God the Father Almighty; from
thence he shall come to judge the Quick and the Dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost; the holy Catholic Church; the Communion
of Saints; the Forgiveness of Sins; the Resurrection of the Body,
and the Life everlasting. Amen.

Q. _What dost thou chiefly learn in these Articles of thy Belief_?

_A_. First, I learn to believe in God the Father, Who hath made me
and all the World.

Secondly, In God the Son, who hath redeemed me, and all Mankind.

Thirdly, In God the Holy Ghost, who sanctifieth me, and all the
Elect People of God.

Q. _You said that your God-Fathers and God-Mothers did promise for
you, that you should keep God's Commandments. Tell me how many
there be_?

_A_. Ten.

Q. _Which be they_?

_A_. The same which God spake in the twentieth Chapter of _Exodus_,
saying, I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the Land of
_Egypt_, out of the House of Bondage.

I. Thou shalt have none other Gods but Me.

II. Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven Image, nor the
Likeness of any Thing, that is in Heaven above, or in the Earth
beneath, or in the Water under the Earth. Thou shalt not bow down
to them, nor worship them; for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God,
and visit the Sins of the Fathers upon the Children unto the third
and fourth Generation of them that hate me; and shew Mercy unto
Thousands of them that love me, and keep my Commandments.

III. Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vain; for
the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his Name in vain.

IV. Remember that thou keep holy the _Sabbath_ Day. Six Days shalt
thou labour, and do all that thou hast to do; but the Seventh Day
is the _Sabbath_ of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt do no Manner
of Work, thou, and thy Son, and thy Daughter, thy Man Servant, and
thy Maid Servant, thy Cattle, and the Stranger that is within thy
Gates: for in six Days the Lord made Heaven and Earth, the Sea, and
all that in them is, and rested the Seventh Day: wherefore, the
Lord blessed the Seventh Day, and hallowed it.

V. Honour thy Father and thy Mother, that thy Days may be long in
the Land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.

VI. Thou shalt do no Murder.

VII. Thou shalt not commit Adultery.

VIII. Thou shalt not Steal.

IX. Thou shalt not bear false Witness against thy Neighbour.

X. Thou shalt not covet thy Neighbour's House, thou shalt not covet
thy Neighbour's Wife, nor his Servant, nor his Maid, nor his Ox,
nor his Ass, nor any Thing that is his.

Q. _What dost thou chiefly learn by these Commandments_?

_A_. I learn two Things: My Duty towards God; and my Duty towards
my Neighbour.

Q. _What is thy Duty towards God_?

_A_. My duty towards God, is to believe in him, to fear him, and
to love him, with all my Heart, with all my Mind, with all my Soul,
and with all my Strength; to Worship him, to give him Thanks, to
put my whole Trust in him, to call upon him, to honour his holy
Name and his Word; and to serve him truly all the Days of my Life.

Q. _What is thy Duty towards thy Neighbour_?

_A_. My Duty towards my Neighbour, is to love him as myself, and
to do to all Men as I would they should do unto me; to love, honour,
and succour my Father and Mother; to honour and obey the------, and
all that are put in authority under------; to submit myself to all
my Governors, Teachers, Spiritual Pastors, and Masters; to order
myself lowly and reverently to all my Betters; to hurt no Body by
Word or Deed; to be true and just in all my Dealings; to bear no
Malice nor Hatred in my Heart; to keep my Hands from Picking and
Stealing, and my Tongue from Evil-Speaking, Lying, and Slandering;
to keep my Body in Temperance, Soberness, and Chastity; not to
Covet nor Desire other Men's Goods, but to learn and labour truly
to get mine own Living; and to do my Duty in that State of Life
unto which it shall please God to call me.

Catechist. _My good Child, know this, that thou art not able to do
these Things of thyself, nor to walk in the Commandments of God,
and to serve him, without his special Grace; which thou must learn
at all Times to call for by diligent Prayer. Let me hear, therefore,
if thou canst say the Lord's Prayer_?

_A_. Our Father which art in Heaven; Hallowed be thy Name. Thy
Kingdom come, Thy Will be done in Earth, as it is in Heaven. Give
us this Day our daily Bread. And forgive us our Trespasses, as we
forgive them that Trespass against us. And lead us not into
Temptation; but deliver us from Evil. _Amen_.

Q. _What desirest thou of God in this Prayer_?

_A_. I desire my Lord God our heavenly Father, who is the Giver of
all Goodness, to send his Grace unto me, and to all People, that
we may worship him, serve him, and obey him, as we ought to do.
And I pray unto God, that he will send us all Things that be
needful both for our Souls and Bodies; and that he will be merciful
unto us, and forgive us our Sins; and that it will please him to
save and defend us in all Dangers, ghostly and bodily; and that he
will keep us from all Sin and Wickedness, and from our ghostly
Enemy, and from everlasting Death. And this I trust he will do of
his Mercy and Goodness, through our Lord Jesus Christ And therefore
I say, _Amen_: So be it.

Q. _How many Sacraments hath Christ ordained in his Church_?

_A_. Two only, as generally necessary to Salvation; that is to say,
Baptism, and the Supper of the Lord.

Q. _What meanest thou by this Word_ Sacrament?

_A_. I mean an outward and visible Sign of an inward and spiritual
Grace, given unto us, ordained by Christ himself, as a Means
whereby we receive the same, and a Pledge to assure us thereof.

Q. _How many Parts are there in a Sacrament_?

_A_. Two: The outward visible Sign, and the inward spiritual Grace.

Q. _What is the outward visible Sign, or Form in Baptism_?

_A_. Water; wherein the Person is baptised, _In the Name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost_.

Q. _What is the inward and spiritual Grace_?

_A_. A Death unto Sin, and a new Birth unto Righteousness: For
being by Nature born in Sin, and the Children of Wrath, we are
hereby made the Children of Grace.

Q. _What is required of Persons to be baptised_?

_A_. Repentance, whereby they forsake Sin; and Faith, whereby they
stedfastly believe the Promises of God, made to them in that
Sacrament.

Q. _Why then are Infants baptised, when, by Reason of their tender
Age, they cannot perform them_?

_A_. Because they promise them both by their Sureties; which
Promise, when they come to Age, themselves are bound to perform.

Q. _Why was the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper ordained_?

_A_. For the continual Remembrance of the Sacrifice of the Death
of Christ, and of the Benefits which we receive thereby.

Q. _What is the outward Part or Sign of the Lord's Supper_?

_A_. Bread and Wine, which the Lord hath commanded to be received.

Q. _What is the inward Part or Thing signified_?

_A_. The Body and Blood of Christ, which are verily and indeed
taken and received by the Faithful in the Lord's Supper.

Q. _What are the Benefits whereof we are Partakers thereby_?

_A_. The strengthening and refreshing of our Souls by the Body and
Blood of Christ, as our Bodies are by the Bread and Wine.

Q. _What is required of them who come to the Lord's Supper_?

_A_. To examine themselves, whether they repent them truly of their
former Sins, stedfastly purposing to lead a new Life; have a lively
Faith in God's Mercy through Christ, with a thankful Remembrance of
his Death and be in Charity with all Men.



PRAYERS _used in the_ ACADEMY _of the_ PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL
CHURCH, _in Philadelphia_.


LET US PRAY.

_Lord have Mercy upon us_.

Our Father, which art in Heaven; Hallowed be thy Name. Thy Kingdom
come. Thy Will be done in Earth, as it is in Heaven. Give us this
Day our daily Bread. And forgive us our Trespasses, as we forgive
them that Trespass against us. And lead us not into Temptation;
but deliver us from Evil. AMEN.

O Lord, our Heavenly Father, almighty and everlasting God, who hast
safely brought us to the Beginning of this Day; defend us in the
same with thy mighty Power, and grant that this Day we fall into no
Sin, neither run into any Kind of Danger; but that all our Doings
may be ordered by thy Governance, to do always what is righteous in
thy Sight, through Jesus Christ our Lord. AMEN.

_But at Evening Prayer, instead of the foregoing Collect, the
following is to be used_.

Lighten our Darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord, and by thy great
Mercy defend us from all Perils and Dangers of this Night, for the
Love of thy only Son our Saviour Jesus Christ. AMEN.

O God, the Creator and Preserver of all Mankind, we humbly beseech
thee for all Sorts and Conditions of Men; that thou wouldest be
pleased to make thy Ways known unto them, thy saving Health unto
all Nations. More especially we pray for the good Estate of the
Catholic Church; that it may be so guided and governed by thy good
Spirit, that all who profess and call themselves Christians may be
led into the Way of Truth, and hold the Faith in Unity of Spirit,
in the Bond of Peace, and in Righteousness of Life. Finally, we
commend to thy fatherly Goodness all those who are any ways
afflicted or distressed in Mind, Body, or Estate; that it may
please thee to comfort and relieve them according to their several
Necessities, giving them Patience under their Sufferings, and a
happy Issue out of all their Afflictions: And this we beg for
Jesus Christ his sake. AMEN.

Almighty God, Father of all Mercies, we thine unworthy Servants do
give thee most humble and hearty Thanks for all thy Goodness and
loving Kindness to us, and to all Men. We bless thee for our
Creation, Preservation, and all the Blessings of this Life; but
above all for thine inestimable Love in the Redemption of the World
by our Lord Jesus Christ; for the Means of Grace, and for the Hope
of Glory. And we beseech thee, give us that due Sense of all thy
Mercies, that our Hearts may be unfeignedly Thankful, and that we
may shew forth thy Praise, not only with our Lips, but in our Lives,
by giving up ourselves to thy Service, and by walking before thee
in Holiness and Righteousness all our Days, through Jesus Christ
our Lord; to whom, with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all Honour and
Glory, World without End. AMEN.

Almighty God, who hast given us Grace at this Time with one Accord
to make our common Supplications unto thee, and dost promise that
when two or three are gathered together in thy Name, thou wilt
grant their Requests; fulfil now, O Lord, the Desires and Petitions
of thy Servants, as may be most Expedient for them; granting us in
this World Knowledge of thy Truth, and in the World to come Life
everlasting. AMEN.

The Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Love of God, and the
Fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. AMEN.



Graces and Hymns.


GRACE before MEAT.

The Eyes of all Things do look up and trust in thee, O Lord: Thou
openest thy Hand liberally, and fillest every living Thing. Good
Lord bless us, and all the Gifts which we receive from thee;
through Jesus Christ, our Lord. AMEN.


GRACE after MEAT.

The God of all Glory and Power, who hath created, redeemed, and
presently fed us, be blessed and praised, both now and for evermore.
AMEN.


_Song of the Angels at the Nativity of our blessed Saviour_,
Luke ii, from verse 8, to verse 15.

  While Shepherds watch'd their Flocks by Night,
    All seated on the Ground,
  The Angel of the Lord came down,
    And Glory shone around.

  "Fear not said he," for mighty Dread,
    "Had seized their troubled Mind;
  "Glad Tidings of great Joy I bring
    "To you and all Mankind.

  "To you, in David's Town this Day,
    "Is born, of David's Line,
  "The Saviour who is Christ the Lord,
    "And this shall be the Sign:

  "The heav'nly Babe you there shall find
    "To human View display'd,
  "All meanly wrapp'd in Swathing-bands,
    "And in a Manger laid."

  Thus spake the Seraph; and forthwith
    Appear'd a shining Throng
  Of Angels, praising God, and thus
    Address'd their joyful Song:

  "All Glory be to God on high,
    "And to the Earth be Peace:
  "Good-Will, henceforth, from Heav'n to Men,
    "Begin and never cease."


For EASTER-DAY.

  Since Christ, our Passover, is slain
    A Sacrifice for all:
  Let all with thankful Hearts agree
    To keep the Festival:

  Not with the Leaven, as of old,
    Of Sin and Malice fed;
  But with unfeign'd Sincerity,
    And Truth's unleaven'd Bread.

  Christ being rais'd by Pow'r Divine,
    And rescu'd from the Grave,
  Shall die no more, Death shall on him
    No more Dominion have.

  For that he dy'd, 'twas for our Sins
    He once vouchsaf'd to die:
  But that he lives, he lives to God
    For all Eternity.

  So count yourselves as dead to Sin,
    But graciously restor'd,
  And made henceforth alive to God,
    Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

  To Father, Son and Holy Ghost,
    The God whom we adore,
  Be glory, as it was, is now,
    And shall be evermore.


F I N I






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The A, B, C. With the Church of
England Catechism, by Unknown

